#labels Featured
=Windows 7.3 Release =
Notes on how I native Windows executables.for DDSCAT 7.3.0 were made, Piotr J. Flatau, pflatau@ucsd.edu, June 9, 2013, GNU Copyright  Draine & Flatau 2013


 * In directory ddscat7.3.9_130527_ingle32_gfortran_nomp_nompi_nomkl there is already precompiled ddscat.exe. You can run examples using this file on Windows computer. Notice that this is NOT optimal version of an executable  of DDSCAT. This version is in fact the most basic one so users can run the code and get familiar with DDSCAT fast. 
Overall we still think that the best strategy is to use LINUX operating system (or alike).  But you can compile DDSCAT (we tested it) with  Intel compiler and MKL/OpenMP, MPI support on Windows. 
You don't have to use MinGW shell on Windows but it is easier that way. Also, we run DDSCAT on Windows from command prompt and did not tested Visual Studio compilation. 



 * Downloaded  ddscat7.3.0_130527.tgz and ddscat7.3.0_examples_130526.tgz from GOOGLE CODE DDSCAT https://code.google.com/p/ddscat/

 * MinGW Installation. You will need MinGW to run DDSCAT easily. It is free at http://www.mingw.org/
 * Install MinGW and add paths to System Environment Control Panel/Advanced system Settings opens system Properties Window/Environmental Variables. In System Variables add c:\MinGW\bin;c:\MinGW\msys\1.0\bin;C:\
 * Installation of ddscat7.3.0.130527_single32_gfortran_nomp_nompi_nomkl
 * MinGW32
 * GFORTRAN
 * Single precision
 * 32 bit gfortran compiler (i.e. THERE IS 2Gbyte MEMORY LIMIT)
 * Without OPENMP, Witout MPI, Without MKL option
 * Eddited Makefile and added these lines (gfortran section)
 * LFLAGS	= -static-libgcc -static-libgfortran
 * MKLROOT	=
 * INCLUDE	=
 * make all (it build ddscat.exe and other executables). I have tested that
 * objdump -x ddscat.exe | grep "DLL" command (it should give KERNEL32.dll, msvcrt.dll).
 * I have tested that example ELLIPSOID works. Notice that all tests and compilation were done in MinGW  shell window
 * All Programs/MinGW/MinGW Shell

=Windows 7.2 Release=
This Windows release is based on "gfortran". User Guide contains description of options to run and compile DDSCAT on Windows. 

The executable ﬁle discussed in "native executable" section was compiled using “gfortran” in the MINGW environment (http://www.mingw.org/). Once you have MINGW and MSYS installed, in “all programs” there is now the MinGW program "MinGW shell". Once you open this shell one can now compile Fortran code using "gfortran". The
"make" and "tar" utilities are available. The command "pwd" shows which directory corresponds to the
initial "MinGW" shell. For example it can be "/home/Piotr" which corresponds to windows directory
"c:\mingw\msys\1.0\home\piotr".
You now need to copy ddscat.tar ﬁles and untar them. To make a native executable, edit "Makeﬁle" so that the "LFLAGS" string is deﬁned to be
LFLAGS=-static-libgcc -static-libgfortran
and then execute "make all". The resulting ddscat.exe doesn’t require any non-windows libraries. This can be checked with the
objdump -x ddscat.exe | grep "DLL"
command (it should give KERNEL32.dll, msvcrt.dll).

Windows code contains documentation, examples, source code, and binaries. We use Inno Setup5 to create self-extracting file.


=Windows 7.1 Release=

Windows Distribution (NOTE. These executable codes should NOT be used for benchmark purposes because they were not optimized)
|| File || Description || Purpose || Notes ||
||[http://ddscat.googlecode.com/files/ddscat_g95mno_710_100303_sp.exe DDSCAT.exe] || DDSCAT || REQUIRED Calculates scattering || G95 -O2 -mno-cygwin, single precision, CYGWIN (use this version) ||
||[http://ddscat.googlecode.com/files/ddscat_g95mno_710_100303_dp.exe DDSCAT.exe] || DDSCAT || Calculates scattering || G95 -O2 -mno-cygwin, double precision, CYGWIN ||
||[http://ddscat.googlecode.com/files/ddscat_ellipsoid_710_100303.par ddscat.par] || ddscat.par || REQUIRED input file || download and rename to ddscat.par ||
||[http://ddscat.googlecode.com/files/m1.50_0.01 diel.tab] || diel.tab|| REQUIRED defines dielectric constant|| keep in ../diel directory ||
||[http://ddscat.googlecode.com/files/calltarget_g95mno_710_100303_sp.exe CALLTARGET.exe] || Calltarget || Create shape file|| G95 -O2 -mno-cygwin, single precision, CYGWIN ||
||[http://ddscat.googlecode.com/files/ddfield_g95mno_710_100303_sp.exe DDFIELD.exe] || DDFIELD || Calculate near field || G95 -O2 -mno-cygwin, single precision, CYGWIN ||


==Running DDSCAT on Windows==
If you use Windows you should be able to run DDSCAT by downloading just 3 files - executable "ddscat.exe", example input file "ddscat.par" and example dieletric constant file "diel.tab".  Native  Windows executables do not require additional libraries. There are 2 versions - single and double precision; use the single precision. Note that these codes were compiled with basic options without optimizations.  If you plan to do large multiprocessor calculations you may want to recompile the code from the source.  

 * Download ddscat...exe executable file (it has extension .exe) 
 * Download ddscat...par file, rename it to ddscat.par
 * Download example dielectric constant tabulation
 * Place ddscat.exe ddscat.par in the same directory and diel.tab in ../diel directory (or make simple modification in ddscat.par to point to diel.tab file) 
 * Enter windows command mode ("run" and "cmd") 
 * Execute DDSCAT by entering ddscat.exe in the Windows command mode 

There are other options to run the code on Windows. One possibility it to install Sun Virtualbox add Ubuntu Linux operating system. Install gfortran under Ubuntu. Once this is done you can follow instructions provided in the DDSCAT user manual (i.e. compile the code). 